 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            ANMAP 
 
 
 
 
 
                    A Map Analysis System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           Preface
 
 
 
Anmap is a map and image analysis system currently implemented
at MRAO, Cambridge. This document describes the facilities
provided by the package and how to use it. The package is
written around the standard map format and IO libraries used
at MRAO and is fully supported and future developments are
foreseen. The system is compatible with the other MRAO
software such as Postmortem and the Mapper which are also
based around the same command processor and map format.
 
Paul Alexander was responsible for the design and
implementation of most of the high level and Anmap specific
utilities, including the routines for handling the map
catalogue. The IO libraries, command processing and map
handling libraries were written by Dave Titterington. A number
of routines, especially for coordinate conversion and
reprojection have been supplied by Elizabeth Waldram and Nick
Rees. This documentation has been prepared by Paul Alexander
using the GCAL text processing package written by Philip Hazel
of the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory and
supported on on the IBM 3084. Routines supplied by the
Numerical Algorithms Group are used for specific numerical
applications. The graphics library is the PGPLOT library
supplied by T.J. Pearson and translated to the NORD by Dave
Titterington. Julia Riley and Guy Pooley kindly read and
suggested improvements to this manual.
 
This documentation is applicable to Version 6 of ANMAP. It is
both a users guide and a reference manual.
 
 
 
 
P. Alexander, Dave Titterington, October 1990.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          Contents
 
 
 
Introduction                                     I--1
 
A Tutorial Guide to Map Analysis                 II--1
 
The Anmap System                                 III--22
 
Displaying Maps and Images                       IV--43
 
Map Analysis                                     V--62
 
Image Deconvolution                              VI--75
 
Analysing Synchrotron Spectra                    VII--82
 
Utilities                                        VIII--86
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       1. INTRODUCTION
                       _______________
 
 
 
Anmap is short for ANalysis-MAP and is the name given to the
new image reduction software package on the Norsk Data NORD
computers at the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory,
Cambridge. Facilities are provided for displaying, CLEANing,
convolving, combining images and statistical analysis such as
finding fluxes. Other programs in MRAO's data reduction system
provide facilities for examining and editing UV-plane data,
calibration and map making (Postmortem), for analysing
catalogues (Car-System) and analysing survey data (Survey).
 
This document provides both a tutorial type introduction to
Anmap and a more extensive manual. New users should look first
at Chapter 2 and then at the more detailed command
descriptions as the need arises. The remainder of this
introductory chapter describes the NORD filing system, the map
catalogue and the basic way maps are manipulated. For more
information on the system itself see Chapter 3.
 
 
 
1.1 Notation
____________
 
Throughout this document some standard notation will be used.
 
(a)  In the text bold will indicate a command name or
     parameter.
 
(b)  In examples bold will indicate messages produced by the
     computer as well as prompts.
 
(c)  The term CR will refer to a 'carriage-return' (i.e.
     pressing the return key) and ESC to an 'escape' obtained
     by pressing the key marked escape.
 
 
1.1.1 Commands
1.1.1 Commands
 
Commands follow the same convention as on the NORD itself.
Each command consists of a number of parts each separated by a
dash '--'. Upper and lower-case characters are not
distinguished in commands or file names. The command
interpreter matches each part of the command separately, you
only need to type as much of the command as is necessary to
make it unambiguous. The simplest way to see how this works is
via an example. The command list-catalogue lists the contents
of the map-catalogue (see below). To use this command the user
may type any one of the following abbreviations:
 
       li-cat
       list-c
       l-c
 
however, the simple
 
       list
 
is not sufficient as there is also a command list-batch-queue
and a message:
 
*** command is ambiguous 
 
will appear along with a list of alternatives.
 
Commands may take data (just as on the NORD). The data for a
particular command is given after the command: you may type on
the same line as the command the responses to the prompts
which would normally follow after specifying the command name.
If more than one data item or response is given on the command
line than they may be separated by commas ',' or spaces. If
you do not know what data a particular command is expecting
then the program will give an informative prompt.
 
 
 
Examples:
 
       delete-files (maps-1:p-a):resi,yes
 
delete-files takes an argument which is the file name and
requests for confirmation before deleting the file.
 
       scan-map 1,,,,,
 
Scan-map takes a map-catalogue entry and a UV-range -- in this
example the default of the complete map is used.
 
 
 
When you are prompted for some input the default to the
command is shown in square brackets '[', ']'. Round brackets
are used to show possible responses. The default may be
obtained by pressing CR.
 
 
 
Examples:
 
       Map-name [(maps-1:paul-a):map] :    CR 
 
In this example a default directory and file type are
indicated -- if you do not supply these the defaults are used.
 
       Projection (equatorial,sky,tangent) [sky] :    equat
 
The user is prompted for the projection of the output map in
the reproject command, the valid replies are either
equatorial, sky or tangent and the default (obtained on
pressing carriage return) is sky, in this example the user has
chosen equatorial.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 File Names
______________
 
File names on the Nord have the following structure:
 
(directory-name:user-name)file-name:type
 
Upper- and lower-case characters are not distinguished. As
with commands, when specifying the name of an existing file
you need only give as much of the file name as is necessary to
make the name unambiguous and portions of the file name
between dashes '--' and colons ':' are treated separately. The
file name must not exceed 16 characters, while the type
(similar to the type on the VAX) must not exceed 4 characters.
 
 
 
Examples
 
(maps-3:paul-a)map-name:map
 
is matched by (m-3:p-a)m-n:map or even (m-3:p-a)m if there are
no other files beginning with an 'm' and especially if the
program is expecting a file type of ':map'.
 
 
 
1.3 Getting ANMAP started
_________________________
 
To start up ANMAP simply type:
 
      anmap
 
The program will then begin -- it will take a little time to
get going as the program is quite large and it is going
through a start-up procedure. After a while a message similar
to the following will appear on the screen:
 
 
Anmap Version 6.4(a) June 1990
_____
 
 
together perhaps with a message, and the prompt will change
to:
 
       Anmap> 
 
Anmap is now ready to accept commands. Anmap is organized into
sub-systems, each with its own set of commands, however some
commands (Basic-Commands) are always available to you -- the
basic commands are those which are available when you see the
Anmap> prompt and you may type them in response to any of the
other prompts. Basic-commands exist to obtain help
information, access the map-catalogue, access disc files and
importantly to change to another sub-system.
 
The sub-systems currently available to you are:
 
 
 
 
 Sub-System             Prompt              --  Description 
 
 BASIC-SYSTEM           Anmap>              --  The basic ANMAP system
 
 FILE-SYSTEM            File-System>        --  File system commands
 
 CATALOGUE-SYSTEM       Map-Catalogue>      --  Map-Catalogue commands
 
 MAP-ANALYSIS           Map-Analysis>       --  Analysing maps
 
 MAP-DISPLAY            Map-Display>        --  Contouring and grey-scales
 
 CLEAN                  Clean>              --  CLEANing maps
 
 RESULTS-ANALYSIS       Results-Analysis>   --  Analysing results file
 
 EDIT-REDTAPE           Edit-Redtape>       --  Redtape correction
 
 SYNCHROTRON-ANALYSIS   Synchrotron>        --  Analysing synchrotron spectra
 
 ERROR-REPORT           Report>             --  Gripes and suggestions
 
 ANMAP-MONITOR          Anmap-Monitor>      --  System facilities
 
 
You start off in the basic-system - to return to it from any
other sub-system just type exit or quit -- these commands
typed in response to the Anmap> prompt will leave Anmap and
return to SINTRAN and the '@' prompt. To switch to a different
sub-system simply give the name of the sub-system as a command
and you will notice that the prompt will change.
 
At any time you can list the available commands by typing a
'?' and you will be prompted:
 
      command: 
 
pressing CR will list all the commands available in the
current sub-system while typing for example 'examine' will
list all commands matching this string (in response to the
File-System> prompt this gives examine-maps, examine-files).
 
You may obtain considerably more information by typing help --
this enters the help system and you will be prompted for an
output file; simply press return if you want the information
to appear on your terminal otherwise as a useful alternatives
type PRINTER to get hard copy output.
 
Once past the prompt for the output file a menu of items help
knows about is displayed. To obtain information on a
particular topic, for example the map-catalogue, simply type
the name of the entry of interest. Let us suppose you type
map-cat (note that minimal matching applies). On the screen
will be displayed a few lines of introduction to the map
catalogue and then there will appear a new menu of things help
knows about in connection with the map-catalogue; as we will
presume you are new to Anmap, type intro and the information
listed under the Introduction will be typed. On completion of
this information you will still be at the level of help
information on the map catalogue -- to re-display the menu
type:
 
       ? CR 
 
or to return to the basic menu of what help knows about simply
type CR. To return to the Anmap> prompt keep pressing CR until
the prompt re-appears on your screen.
 
 
 
1.4 Escape
__________
 
You may interrupt the program at any stage by pressing the ESC
key. This should return you to the current sub-system prompt.
Note that this will happen immediately in response to a
prompt, but there may be a considerable delay if some work is
being done on an image as the effect is carefully controlled
so that you do not lose any data.
 
Normally ESC on the NORD returns you to SINTRAN. In general
this is undesirable in Anmap (and also other programs such as
Postmortem) as you will have lost all of your work within the
program. However, it sometimes occurs that due to an error in
programming (or a system problem) the program gets itself in a
mess and you have to interrupt it in a violent fashion (just
like breaking out of programs on other systems -- e.g. CTRL-Y
on the VAX). In this case press the CTRL key and the
backslash, \, key together and this will work to exit from
Anmap.
 
 
 
1.5 What Should I Read Now?
___________________________
 
The remainder of this manual is brocken up into two main
sections. Chapter 2 is a users guide to Anmap containing many
examples and is all you should read if you are a new user of
the program. Once you have gained some experience with Anmap
you will find the remaining chapters of this document useful.
The information contained in the chapters 3-8 is also
available online within Anmap by using the help system.
 
 
 
1.6 Where Do I Find Information On...
_____________________________________
 
Since Anmap is divided into sub-systems the following table
may be useful in directing you to the right section of Anmap
to solve a particular problem.
 
Getting data into Anmap.
          If your data is in standard MAP format use the map-
          catalogue command add-to-catalogue to add your map
          to the catalogue (Section 3.5). If your data is on
          tape you will probably need to use FITSREAD (see
          online help documentation at the NORD prompt)
          followed by add-to-catalogue. If your data is in a
          non-standard format use the input-map command of the
          map-analysis sub-system (Section 5.5).
 
Correcting the redtape of images.
          Use the edit-redtape sub-system described in chapter
          8.
 
Displaying images.
          To display images on any device use the map-display
          sub-system described in Chapter 4.
 
CLEANing maps.
          To CLEAN a map use the CLEAN sub-system described in
          chapter 6. To print pixel values use the print-map
          command in the map-analysis sub-system (Section
          5.1).
 
Calculating statistics, noise and fluxes.
          Use scan-map, noise-map and map-histogram in the
          map-analysis sub-system (Section 5.1.9) to analyse
          the noise on a map. To calculate the flux the
          commands add-flux, strip-flux and ring-flux are
          available (Section 5.1).
 
Finding positions and pixel values.
          The basic command cursor-position return the cursor
          position and map value using a interactive plot
          device (Chapter 4, Section 4.8.6). The map-analysis
          command local-maximum will locate the position of
          the maximum on a map within a specified search area,
          while the command convert-position can be used to
          convert between pixel positions (U,V) and sky
          coordinates (RA,DEC) (Section 5.1).
 
Analysing polarization maps.
          Commands exist to analyse polarization data to
          produce polarized intensity maps (mI-map),
          percentage polarization (perc-map) and position-
          angle maps (CHI-map). To display polarization maps
          the map-display sub-system command vectors and plot
          vectors can be used (Section 4.2.12).
 
Combining maps.
          Maps can be added/subtracted (add-maps) or divided
          (divide-maps) see Section 5.2.
 
Transforming maps.
          Maps may be transformed to a new coordinate system
          (reproject-map, stretch-map, uv-shift-map) and made
          smaller (shrink-map) or other numerical
          transformations applied (logarithm-map,
          exponentiate-map, scale-map); these are all map-
          analysis commands and are described in Section 5.3.
          Regions of a map may have their value set to
          'undefined' either by specifying a particular map
          range (zap-map) or by masking with themselves or
          other maps (gate-map, mask-map) -- Section 5.3).
 
Smoothing and filtering.
          A map may be convolved with a gaussian using smooth-
          map (Section 5.3.5) or with a general 2D array using
          convolve-map (Section 5.3.6).
 
Analysing multi-frequency data.
          Simple spectral index maps can be made constructed
          (alpha-map, Section 5.2) or more complex synchrotron
          spectral analysis performed (Chapter 7).
 
          The above list is not exhaustive, but is intended as
          a quick guide to many of Anmap's features.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
